### Threats to Validity {#sec:combo-threats}

\todo{more of this}

Our studies have limitations that impact the validity of our findings, as well
as our ability to generalize them. We describe some of these limitations and
their impacts.

#### Construct Validity

Threats to construct validity concern measurements accurately reflecting the
features of interest.  A possible threat to construct validity is our
benchmarks.  Errors in the datasets could result in inaccurate effectiveness
measures.  Our dataset creation technique closely follows that of other
researchers [@Dit-etal_2013; @Revelle-etal_2010; @Moreno-etal_2014].
Additionally, datasets extracted source code entities automatically from
changesets, previous work shows this approach is on par with manual extraction
[@Corley-etal_2011].

#### Internal Validity

Threats to internal validity include possible defects in our tool chain and
possible errors in our execution of the study procedure, the presence of which
might affect the accuracy of our results and the conclusions we draw from them.
We controlled for these threats by testing our tool chain and by assessing the
quality of our data.  Because we applied the same tool chain to all subject
systems, any errors are systematic and are unlikely to affect our results
substantially.

#### External Validity

Threats to external validity concern the extent to which we can generalize our
results.  The subjects of our study comprise fourteen open source projects in
Java, so we cannot generalize our results to systems implemented in other
languages.  However, the systems are of different sizes, are from different
domains, and have characteristics in common with those of systems developed in
industry.

#### Conclusion Validity


