chapters/4_results/2_dit.md, before:

## Developer Identification {#sec:dit-results}

In this section, we describe the results of the study outlined in Section
\ref{sec:dit-methodology}.

\input{tables/triage_rq1}

\done asks how well a topic model trained on changesets performs compared to one
trained on source code entities.  Table \ref{table:triage_rq1} summarizes the
results of each subject system.  In the table, we bold which of the two MRRs is
greater.  Since our goal is to show that training with changesets is just as
good, or better than, training on snapshots, we only care about statistical
significance when the MRR is in favor of snapshots.  Statistical significance
in favor of changesets is desirable.  Statistical *insignificance* between
snapshots and changesets is acceptable and also desirable as it showcases that
the changeset approach is on par with snapshots.  For example, with respect to
\done, \openjpa is a favorable case for changesets as it has a higher MRR,
along with statistical significance ($p < 0.01$) and a notably large effect
size ($0.3642$).  Likewise, \tika displays a favorable case for snapshots in
terms of higher MRR, but does not achieve statistical significance and is hence
is not a definite unfavorable case.

We note an improvement in MRR for only 2 of the 6 systems when using
changesets.  \pig is the only system with an MRR in favor of snapshots that is
also statistically significant at $p < 0.01$.  Comparing all systems at once,
snapshots show slight MRR improvement over changesets with statistical
significance.  This suggests that changeset-based TMs are on par with
snapshot-based TMs.

\input{tables/triage_rq2}

\dtwo asks how well a simulation of using a topic model would perform as it
were to be used in real-time.  This is a much closer evaluation of an DIT to it
being used in an actual development environment.  Table \ref{table:triage_rq2}
summarizes the results of each subject system.  In each of the tables, we bold
which of the two MRRs is greater.  Again, since our goal is to show that
temporal considerations must be given during DIT evaluation, we only care about
statistical significance when the MRR is in favor of batch.

There is an improvement in favor of historical simulation in MRR for only 1 of
the 6 systems, which is statistically significant at $p<0.01$.  Two of the 5
results in favor of batch changesets were statistically significant.  Overall,
batch changesets performs better than a full historical simulation, but is not
statistically significant.  This suggests that under historical simulation, the
accuracy of the DIT will fluctuate as a project evolves, which may indicate a
more accurate evaluation is possible with a historical simulation

\todo{answer RQs}

Commit message:

add some basic question answers to results section

chapters/4_results/2_dit.md, after:

## Developer Identification {#sec:dit-results}

In this section, we describe the results of the study outlined in Section
\ref{sec:dit-methodology}.

\input{tables/triage_rq1}

\done asks how well a topic model trained on changesets performs compared to one
trained on source code entities.  Table \ref{table:triage_rq1} summarizes the
results of each subject system.  In the table, we bold which of the two MRRs is
greater.  Since our goal is to show that training with changesets is just as
good, or better than, training on snapshots, we only care about statistical
significance when the MRR is in favor of snapshots.  Statistical significance
in favor of changesets is desirable.  Statistical *insignificance* between
snapshots and changesets is acceptable and also desirable as it showcases that
the changeset approach is on par with snapshots.  For example, with respect to
\done, \openjpa is a favorable case for changesets as it has a higher MRR,
along with statistical significance ($p < 0.01$) and a notably large effect
size ($0.3642$).  Likewise, \tika displays a favorable case for snapshots in
terms of higher MRR, but does not achieve statistical significance and is hence
is not a definite unfavorable case.

We note an improvement in MRR for only 2 of the 6 systems when using
changesets.  \pig is the only system with an MRR in favor of snapshots that is
also statistically significant at $p < 0.01$.  Comparing all systems at once,
snapshots show slight MRR improvement over changesets with statistical
significance.  This suggests that changeset-based TMs are on par with
snapshot-based TMs, and aligns with the result we see for FLT in the previous
section.

\begin{framed}
    \textbf{\done}:
    Changeset-based FLTs are as accurate as snapshot-based DITs.
\end{framed}

\input{tables/triage_rq2}

\dtwo asks how well a simulation of using a topic model would perform as it
were to be used in real-time.  This is a much closer evaluation of an DIT to it
being used in an actual development environment.  Table \ref{table:triage_rq2}
summarizes the results of each subject system.  In each of the tables, we bold
which of the two MRRs is greater.  Again, since our goal is to show that
temporal considerations must be given during DIT evaluation, we only care about
statistical significance when the MRR is in favor of batch.

There is an improvement in favor of historical simulation in MRR for only 1 of
the 6 systems, which is statistically significant at $p<0.01$.  Two of the 5
results in favor of batch changesets were statistically significant.  Overall,
batch changesets performs better than a full historical simulation, but is not
statistically significant.  This suggests that under historical simulation, the
accuracy of the DIT will fluctuate as a project evolves, which may indicate a
more accurate evaluation is possible with a historical simulation. Again,
this aligns with the result we see for FLT in the previous section.

\begin{framed}
    \textbf{\dtwo}:
    Historical simulation reveals that the accuracy of the changeset-based DIT
    is inconsistent as a project evolves, and is actually lower than indicated by
    batch evaluation.
\end{framed}
